README.md, before:

[WIP] Tezos-on-GKE
==================

[Tezos](http://tezos.gitlab.io/mainnet/) is a [delegated proof of stake](https://bitshares.org/technology/delegated-proof-of-stake-consensus/) blockchain protocol.

This deploys a fully featured, [best practices](https://medium.com/tezos/its-a-baker-s-life-for-me-c214971201e1) Tezos baking service on Google Kubernetes Engine.

This setup does not include the signer for the baking keys. These keys should be exposed by a remote signer connected to a Hardware Security Module under your control.

Features:

* high availaibility baking, endorsing and accusing
* ssh endpoint for remote signing
* compatible with mainnet and alphanet
* blockchain snapshot download and import from a public URL for faster synchronization of the nodes
* TODO:
  * one-command deployment with Cloud Deployment Manager
  * automatic payouts from a hot wallet with Backerei
  * support for two highly available signers
  * liveliness check of signers with canary signatures

Architecture
------------

This is a Kubernetes private cluster with two nodes located in two Google Cloud zones.

A StatefulSet of two public nodes is connected to the Tezos peer to peer network. As the cluster sits behind a NAT, the nodes initiate connections to public nodes, but are not discoverable.

A private Tezos baking node performs signing, endorsing and accusing. It synchronizes exclusively with the two public nodes belonging to the cluster.

An ssh endpoint is accessed by the remote signer (outside of GKE) to establish a tunnel to the signing daemon.

The remote signer is connected to a Ledger Nano S running the [Tezos Baking app](https://github.com/obsidiansystems/ledger-app-tezos).

<img src="./k8s-baker.svg">

High availability
-----------------

Google guarantees 99.99% SLA on a highly available cluster provided that the Kubernetes deployment itself is highly available. We are using different means to this end.

The StatefulSet ensures that each public Tezos node is running in a different cluster node, so a zone failure does not affect functionality.

The private Tezos Node must not run in two locations at once, lest you are at risk of double baking and getting your funds slashed. Instead of a StatefulSet, a highly available pod backed by a [Regional Persistent Disk](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/disks/#repds) is used. In case of a Google Zone maintenance or failure, the baking pod is restarted in the other zone in an already synchronized state.

It is recommended that the signer have a redundant power supply as well as battery backup. It should also have redundant access to the internet. It should be kept in a location with physical access control as any disconnection event on the Ledger wallet will require entering the PIN.

Remote signer
-------------

You need a Raspberry Pi with a fresh Raspbian install and remote ssh access.

In the `remote-signer` directory, edit the `tezos-remote-signer.yaml` file to set the ip address of your Pi.

Run the ansible fully automated install:

```
cd remote-signer
ansible-playbook tezos-remote-signer.yaml --inventory-file inventory
```

Dependencies
------------

1. Download and install [Terraform][terraform].

1. Download, install, and configure the [Google Cloud SDK][sdk]. You will need
   to configure your default application credentials so Terraform can run. It
   will run against your default project, but all resources are created in the
   (new) project that it creates.

1. Install the [kubernetes
   CLI](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/) (aka
   `kubectl`)

1. install and configure docker

How to deploy
-------------

You need a Google Cloud Organization. You will be able to create one as an individual by registering a domain name, or you may use your company's organization.

You need to use a gcloud account as a user that has permission to create new projects. See [instructions for Terraform service account creation](https://cloud.google.com/community/tutorials/managing-gcp-projects-with-terraform) from Google.

1. Collect the necessary information and put it in `terraform.tfvars`

1. Run the following:

```
cd terraform

# The next 6 lines are only necessary if you are using a terraform service account. Alternatively, create a project manually and pass it as parameter.
export TF_VAR_org_id=YOUR_ORG_ID
export TF_VAR_billing_account=YOUR_BILLING_ACCOUNT_ID
export TF_ADMIN=${USER}-terraform-admin
export TF_CREDS=~/.config/gcloud/${USER}-terraform-admin.json
export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=${TF_CREDS}
export GOOGLE_PROJECT=${TF_ADMIN}

terraform init
terraform plan -out out.plan
terraform apply out.plan
```

This will take time as it will:
* create a Google Cloud project
* create a Kubernetes cluster
* build the necessary containers locally
* build the kubernetes baker

Security considerations
-----------------------

The main security risk of this setup is operator error. It is recommended to stage any new deployment of this code to an alphanet cluster before rolling it out against actual funds.

Another risk is related to the avaialability of the signer.

The baking keys can not be kept in a cold storage address, since a message must be signed for each endorsment. But they must be protected by some sort of hardware bastion, so if an attacker gains access to any part of the setup, they may not walk away with the keys. In this simple setup, we used a Ledger Nano. Larger operations may use a cloud HSM.

The Ledger Nano baking app is deliberately separate from the regular Tezos app, so it can not be used to send payouts to delegators. The payouts should be sent from another address, which is kept in a hot wallet. It is discouraged to automate replenishing the payout address from the baking address, as this would require the baking address to be kept in a hot wallet.

There are also risks inherent with using GCP, such as loosing access to your credentials, getting hacked, or getting your account terminated by your provider.

Commit message:

add the payout delay var
add readme for remote signer

set history mode to rolling for public nodes (saves space)

prevent terraform from nuking cluster when new version available

README.md, after:

[WIP] Tezos-on-GKE
==================

[Tezos](http://tezos.gitlab.io/mainnet/) is a [delegated proof of stake](https://bitshares.org/technology/delegated-proof-of-stake-consensus/) blockchain protocol.

This deploys a fully featured, [best practices](https://medium.com/tezos/its-a-baker-s-life-for-me-c214971201e1) Tezos baking service on Google Kubernetes Engine.

This setup does not include the signer for the baking keys. These keys should be exposed by a remote signer connected to a Hardware Security Module under your control.

Features:

* high availaibility baking, endorsing and accusing
* ssh endpoint for remote signing
* compatible with mainnet and alphanet
* blockchain snapshot download and import from a public URL for faster synchronization of the nodes
* TODO:
  * one-command deployment with Cloud Deployment Manager
  * automatic payouts from a hot wallet with Backerei
  * support for two highly available signers
  * liveliness check of signers with canary signatures

Architecture
------------

This is a Kubernetes private cluster with two nodes located in two Google Cloud zones.

A StatefulSet of two public nodes is connected to the Tezos peer to peer network. As the cluster sits behind a NAT, the nodes initiate connections to public nodes, but are not discoverable.

A private Tezos baking node performs signing, endorsing and accusing. It synchronizes exclusively with the two public nodes belonging to the cluster.

An ssh endpoint is accessed by the remote signer (outside of GKE) to establish a tunnel to the signing daemon.

The remote signer is connected to a Ledger Nano S running the [Tezos Baking app](https://github.com/obsidiansystems/ledger-app-tezos).

<img src="./k8s-baker.svg">

High availability
-----------------

Google guarantees 99.99% SLA on a highly available cluster provided that the Kubernetes deployment itself is highly available. We are using different means to this end.

The StatefulSet ensures that each public Tezos node is running in a different cluster node, so a zone failure does not affect functionality.

The private Tezos Node must not run in two locations at once, lest you are at risk of double baking and getting your funds slashed. Instead of a StatefulSet, a highly available pod backed by a [Regional Persistent Disk](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/disks/#repds) is used. In case of a Google Zone maintenance or failure, the baking pod is restarted in the other zone in an already synchronized state.

It is recommended that the signer have a redundant power supply as well as battery backup. It should also have redundant access to the internet. It should be kept in a location with physical access control as any disconnection event on the Ledger wallet will require entering the PIN.

Dependencies
------------

1. Download and install [Terraform][terraform].

1. Download, install, and configure the [Google Cloud SDK][sdk]. You will need
   to configure your default application credentials so Terraform can run. It
   will run against your default project, but all resources are created in the
   (new) project that it creates.

1. Install the [kubernetes
   CLI](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/) (aka
   `kubectl`)

1. install and configure docker

How to deploy
-------------

You need a Google Cloud Organization. You will be able to create one as an individual by registering a domain name, or you may use your company's organization.

You need to use a gcloud account as a user that has permission to create new projects. See [instructions for Terraform service account creation](https://cloud.google.com/community/tutorials/managing-gcp-projects-with-terraform) from Google.

1. Collect the necessary information and put it in `terraform.tfvars`

1. Run the following:

```
cd terraform

# The next 6 lines are only necessary if you are using a terraform service account. Alternatively, create a project manually and pass it as parameter.
export TF_VAR_org_id=YOUR_ORG_ID
export TF_VAR_billing_account=YOUR_BILLING_ACCOUNT_ID
export TF_ADMIN=${USER}-terraform-admin
export TF_CREDS=~/.config/gcloud/${USER}-terraform-admin.json
export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=${TF_CREDS}
export GOOGLE_PROJECT=${TF_ADMIN}

terraform init
terraform plan -out out.plan
terraform apply out.plan
```

This will take time as it will:
* create a Google Cloud project
* create a Kubernetes cluster
* build the necessary containers locally
* build the kubernetes baker

Then set up the signers and have them connect to the public endpoint.

Then, fund your payout wallet, and send a test transaction from it to somewhere else (this is necessary to reveal the payout key).

Security considerations
-----------------------

The main security risk of this setup is operator error. It is recommended to stage any new deployment of this code to an alphanet cluster before rolling it out against actual funds.

Another risk is related to the avaialability of the signer.

The baking keys can not be kept in a cold storage address, since a message must be signed for each endorsment. But they must be protected by some sort of hardware bastion, so if an attacker gains access to any part of the setup, they may not walk away with the keys. In this simple setup, we used a Ledger Nano. Larger operations may use a cloud HSM.

The Ledger Nano baking app is deliberately separate from the regular Tezos app, so it can not be used to send payouts to delegators. The payouts should be sent from another address, which is kept in a hot wallet. It is discouraged to automate replenishing the payout address from the baking address, as this would require the baking address to be kept in a hot wallet.

There are also risks inherent with using GCP, such as loosing access to your credentials, getting hacked, or getting your account terminated by your provider.
